it's around 10:00 a.m. in Gaza these are
the live images looking across at the
strip IDF troops say they've now taken
control of a Hamas stronghold in the
north of the strip it's one month since
the surprise Hamas attack on Israel that
left 1,400 people dead and around 240
others kidnapped and the conflict has
intensified in recent days our Middle
East correspondent yoland n
reports one month on from the darkest of
days here by the Western Wall the
holiest place where Jews can pray a
candle was lit for each of the estimated
1,400 lives lost and outside on the wall
of Jerusalem's Old City the faces of
some 240 still missing being held
hostage in Gaza Israelis are still
reeling from the horror of the 7th of
October the deadliest day in their
country's 75 year history a day when a
party ground became the scene of Mass
Slaughter when thousands of Hamas
Fighters broke out of Gaza and gunned
down
families after he left his home to see
what was happening aai Brit's wife and
three children were snatched you know
it's been 31 days and that's too long to
be without my kids and my wife and for
them to be held
captive uh in a foreign
place you know under ground in a small
room
and I don't know in what situation they
are in healthwise or you know they're
being fed taken care
of and for four weeks Ordinary People in
Gaza have been paying a heavy price with
Israel besieging the small coastal
strip and pounding it with air strikes
determined to eradicate Hamas which is
in control here the un calls it inhuman
Collective suffering the figures are
staggering with health officials in Gaza
now saying that more than 10,000 have
been killed including over
4,100 children some 1 and a half million
are homeless including
MIM the situation is getting worse day
after day yesterday they hit our
relatives 15 people and we're displaced
there's no food no water when my son
goes to pick up Walter gallon he cues
for 3 to 4 hours in the line they struck
bakeries we don't have
bread as Israeli Ground Forces Advance
inside Gaza the prime minister is
resisting international calls for
ceasefire and has been giving the first
clue about what might happen here after
the war I think Israel will for uh an
indefinite period will have the overall
uh security responsibility because we've
seen what happens when we don't have it
when we don't have that security
responsibility what we have is the
eruption of Hamas Terror on a scale that
we couldn't imagine but Israel's actions
are being watched around the region with
growing fears of this conflict spreading
last night Israel says it struck targets
belonging to the powerful armed group
Hezbollah in Lebanon their crossb
fighting is already the worst in years
so much about the past month has been
unprecedented including the scale of
suffering and there's still no end in
sight yoland Nell BBC News
Jerusalem well Tomaso Del longer is a
spokesperson for the International
Federation of Red Cross and red Cresent
societies he told us more about the
global efforts to put an end to the
fighting I think that it's always in
such a in front of such a great uh
crisis every effort is welcome so it's
difficult to say it's enough I would say
that it's very positive to see all these
diplomatic efforts around the region but
also at International level but I also
believe that we need more efforts to
make sure that a continuous flow
humanitarian will enter in Gaza that we
have a safe space where to operate and
then we'll find a way to stop uh this uh
fighting because in in under this heavy
shelling under this level of violence is
very difficult to operate